README.md, before:

# Weather API

A modern weather API service built with NestJS that provides current weather and forecast data using the OpenWeatherMap API. The service includes both REST and GraphQL endpoints, with built-in caching, rate limiting, and database integration for favorite locations.

## Features

- Current weather data by coordinates or city name
- 5-day weather forecast
- GraphQL support
- In-memory caching
- Rate limiting
- PostgreSQL database integration

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- Docker and Docker Compose
- OpenWeatherMap API key

## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd weather-api
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```env
DB_USER=postgres
DB_PASSWORD=postgres
DB_NAME=myapp
DB_PORT=5432
DB_HOST=localhost
WEATHER_API_KEY=your_openweathermap_api_key
JWT_SECRET=your-super-secret-key-replace-in-production
JWT_EXPIRATION=1h
```

4. Start the PostgreSQL database using Docker:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

5. Start the application:

```bash
# Development
npm run start:dev

# Production
npm run build
npm run start:prod
```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

## API Documentation

### REST Endpoints

#### Current Weather

- **GET** `/weather?lat={latitude}&lon={longitude}`

  - Get current weather by coordinates
  - Query Parameters:
    - `lat`: Latitude (required)
    - `lon`: Longitude (required)

- **GET** `/weather/{city}`
  - Get current weather by city name
  - Parameters:
    - `city`: City name (required)

#### Weather Forecast

- **GET** `/weather/forecast?lat={latitude}&lon={longitude}`

  - Get 5-day forecast by coordinates
  - Query Parameters:
    - `lat`: Latitude (required)
    - `lon`: Longitude (required)

- **GET** `/weather/forecast/{city}`
  - Get 5-day forecast by city name
  - Parameters:
    - `city`: City name (required)

### GraphQL Endpoints

Available at `/graphql`

#### Queries

```graphql
# Get current weather by city
query {
  getWeather(city: "London") {
    city
    country
    temperature
    description
    # ... other fields
  }
}

# Get forecast by city
query {
  getForecast(city: "London") {
    city
    country
    forecast {
      date
      temperature
      description
      # ... other fields
    }
  }
}
```

## Caching Strategy

The application implements a multi-level caching strategy to optimize performance and reduce API calls:

1. **Geocoding Cache**

   - City coordinates are cached for 1 hour
   - Key format: `geo_{city}`
   - Reduces redundant geocoding API calls

2. **Current Weather Cache**

   - Weather data is cached for 10 minutes
   - Key format: `weather_{lat}_{lon}`
   - Balances data freshness with API usage

3. **Forecast Cache**
   - Forecast data is cached for 30 minutes
   - Key format: `forecast_{lat}_{lon}`
   - Longer cache duration due to less frequent updates

The caching implementation uses the `@nestjs/cache-manager` with the following configuration:

- Global cache TTL: 10 minutes
- Maximum cache items: 100

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Enhance README with FAQ section addressing database connection errors and local IP configuration

README.md, after:

# Weather API

A modern weather API service built with NestJS that provides current weather and forecast data using the OpenWeatherMap API. The service includes both REST and GraphQL endpoints, with built-in caching, rate limiting, and database integration for favorite locations.

## Features

- Current weather data by coordinates or city name
- 5-day weather forecast
- GraphQL support
- In-memory caching
- Rate limiting
- PostgreSQL database integration

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- Docker and Docker Compose
- OpenWeatherMap API key

## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd weather-api
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```env
DB_USER=postgres
DB_PASSWORD=postgres
DB_NAME=myapp
DB_PORT=5432
DB_HOST=localhost
WEATHER_API_KEY=your_openweathermap_api_key
JWT_SECRET=your-super-secret-key-replace-in-production
JWT_EXPIRATION=1h
```

4. Start the PostgreSQL database using Docker:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

5. Start the application:

```bash
# Development
npm run start:dev

# Production
npm run build
npm run start:prod
```

## FAQ

### If you see the error 'ERROR [TypeOrmModule] Unable to connect to the database.'

- change the host in the .env file to your local ip address
- to get your local ip address, run `ifconfig` or `ipconfig` in your terminal or
- check network settings in your computer

The API will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

## API Documentation

### REST Endpoints

#### Current Weather

- **GET** `/weather?lat={latitude}&lon={longitude}`

  - Get current weather by coordinates
  - Query Parameters:
    - `lat`: Latitude (required)
    - `lon`: Longitude (required)

- **GET** `/weather/{city}`
  - Get current weather by city name
  - Parameters:
    - `city`: City name (required)

#### Weather Forecast

- **GET** `/weather/forecast?lat={latitude}&lon={longitude}`

  - Get 5-day forecast by coordinates
  - Query Parameters:
    - `lat`: Latitude (required)
    - `lon`: Longitude (required)

- **GET** `/weather/forecast/{city}`
  - Get 5-day forecast by city name
  - Parameters:
    - `city`: City name (required)

### GraphQL Endpoints

Available at `/graphql`

#### Queries

```graphql
# Get current weather by city
query {
  getWeather(city: "London") {
    city
    country
    temperature
    description
    # ... other fields
  }
}

# Get forecast by city
query {
  getForecast(city: "London") {
    city
    country
    forecast {
      date
      temperature
      description
      # ... other fields
    }
  }
}
```

## Caching Strategy

The application implements a multi-level caching strategy to optimize performance and reduce API calls:

1. **Geocoding Cache**

   - City coordinates are cached for 1 hour
   - Key format: `geo_{city}`
   - Reduces redundant geocoding API calls

2. **Current Weather Cache**

   - Weather data is cached for 10 minutes
   - Key format: `weather_{lat}_{lon}`
   - Balances data freshness with API usage

3. **Forecast Cache**
   - Forecast data is cached for 30 minutes
   - Key format: `forecast_{lat}_{lon}`
   - Longer cache duration due to less frequent updates

The caching implementation uses the `@nestjs/cache-manager` with the following configuration:

- Global cache TTL: 10 minutes
- Maximum cache items: 100

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
